We touched briefly upon what Event data is in the last lesson.
We will discuss Event data in more detail here.
My so much emphasis on Event data, let's explore.
In today's world of connected devices and social media,
it is estimated 2.5 exabytes of data is produced every day.
It's equal to 90 hours of HD video.
A huge portion of this data is Event data.
Understanding Event data is important as it will influence
how successfully we navigate the field of data product management.
So what is event?
Event is an interaction or an action at the particular moment by a user,
a system or a sensor.
Examples could be an email that you open,
or a link inside an email you click.
What is Event data?
Data generated by such events is called event data.
Here is an example of what Event data might look like when you open an email,
audio click inside your email.
Should we explore a bit more?
Common day Event data examples will be user interacting with the website.
Let's say you download a movie from Netflix that will generate an Event,
or you click on a YouTube video,
that will be another Event.
If you complete and submit a form on online fitness tracking site such as MyFitnessPal,
that will be also an event.
Many other actions taken by users on a website generate events,
and these events generate Event data.
This data is model and analyzed to understand how customer is using a website.
On Reddit, you share posts or on Twitter, you share tweets.
On YouTube, you like videos or on Facebook you like comments, pictures and status.
On LinkedIn, you mention your colleagues or on WhatsApp you mention a friend.
Or you use hashtag on Instagram or Pinterest to track and trend stories.
Trends of such events are tied by all these social media platforms,
and Event data generated by these is used to understand what is trending,
what features are most popular and how customers are using them.
From system's prospective, Event data is generated on several occasions.
Let us consider our server.
It might trigger some actions like replication of data,
syncing of data or deletion of a job.
All this is programmed,
automated, engineered and creates Event data.
This Event data is analyzed by engineering teams to
monitor if processes are running as expected.
To check, there is no wastage of computing resources.
Now, sensors all around us.
Imagine a fully automated home,
sensor that detect motion,
sensor that detect voice,
sensor that detects smoke.
If we talk about temperature set,
a sensor generates an event when temperature is below
a certain level or above a certain level to trigger heating or cooling.
This Event data might be interesting to understand
energy usage patterns or detect energy leakages.
Now, that we understand what Event and Event data is,
we will move on to Event data components.
Event data component comprises of first, action.
Action will be the download that user click or the post he/she shared on social media.
Action will also be the motion detected by a sensor.
A data replication triggered by the server.
It's important that the actual action that
triggered data generation is captured from event.
In an example, email open and email click are the actions.
Next, timestamp is when the action happened.
Depending on the use case,
granularity of time to be used for Event data is decided.
For user action on website,
seconds could be a good granularity.
Sensor used in satellite might need a granularity of nanoseconds.
In our example, we have timestamps with the granularity of seconds.
State will refer to all other relevant data about this event,
such as one device was used by customer mobile, tablet or computer.
Which browser was used by customer?
Chrome, Safari, Firefox, etc.
As you can see in our example,
customer use iOS device and Safari browser.
Now, that you are a champion of Event data,
we should know how it can be used.
For that, we will have to do Event data modeling. So why wait.